young men and women are turning in all
ever greater numbers to a very casual
pornography especially with regards to
the boys to the abandonment of any
relationships whatsoever and then
interestingly enough
it seems to much less sexual activity in
general what's happening paradoxically
is that by removing all the principles
from sexual interaction not the
inhibitions but the principles we're
actually dooming the sexual Enterprise
rather than facilitating it even for the
hedonists I think what's happening
generally is people are having probably
more casual sex but but they're having
sex less frequently so when they are
having sex it's more likely to be casual
but they're not forming these long
long-standing relationships on the one
hand we have this astounding
availability of sexual stimuli at the
click of a button at any moment anything
that you can imagine is available on the
internet immediately and that seems to
be
demotivating people to actually seek out
meaningful sexual relationships which in
the long term are vastly better for us
in every possible way but we have a
culture enabled by technology which is
very very short term in every way so
people are channeled towards that kind
of immediate relief
[Music]
thank you
hello everyone
I'm happy today to be able to talk to
Louise Perry
um we'll have an interesting
conversation about sexual Dynamics and
the relative role of women and men
Louise Perry my guest today is UK based
journalist author and columnist writing
on the topics of sexual freedom and the
current state of
feminism and The Feminine her recent
book
is the case against the sexual
Revolution published in 2022 so a new
book
it notes the emergence of a widespread
disillusionment with sex particularly
among the young male and female alike
and discusses the long-term
psychological and social error of a life
of hedonistic
urges in the midst of the upheaval of
traditional marital Concepts
Louise is also the director of the other
half a new non-partisan feminist think
tank and the host of Maiden mother
matriarch a developmental progression a
podcast
about sexual politics hello Louise thank
you very much for agreeing to talk to me
today you wrote a rather
controversial book recently let's talk
about the book I'm just going to walk
through the chapters and give everybody
a preview of where we're heading so
chapter one sex must be taken seriously
that doesn't sound like much fun
number two men and women are different
well that'll get you in trouble that's
for sure too
so some desires are bad
Loveless sex is not empowering consent
is not enough and people are not
products
well if you were trying to pick a fight
in today's society
particularly with those on the left I
would say you couldn't have picked six
more
contentious
titles for chapters with the possible
exception of people are not products I
suppose most people on the left even the
radicals would agree with that statement
but the rest of it pretty much runs
cult counter to
I would say the juvenile delusions of
our present culture
I was interested today I was re going
through your book again and uh
I noticed once again that you started
with the story of Marilyn Monroe and
Hugh Hefner and now I was just talking
to my wife about that the other day
I think it was brought in a conversation
motivated by the fact that this podcast
was coming up and
we talked about
the emergence of pornography during our
lifetime you know and when where's both
of us are around 60 and when we were
young
the standard pornographic recourse you
might say was Playboy but that soon
multiplied like a Hydra and first of all
there was Playboy and it had some
pretensions to something like
culture and there was a certain style
associated with it and uh a certain
what would you call it veneer of
sophistication you know it was all Jazz
and penthouses and and and New York and
freedom and youth and you know sexual
activity between consenting adults all
free of other entanglements but
completely conscious of what they were
doing and there were high brow
interviews and you know sort of in jokes
and so Playboy
was quite effective at uh
generating a kind of late Rat Pack cool
around itself
but then
the next
iteration of the pornographic Ascent was
Penthouse and it was
it was the harder core version of
Playboy it got a lot more gynecological
let's say and then Hustler hit after
that and everybody knew at that point
no matter what their attitude was toward
Playboy
that
we'd stepped into a new sort of
swamp of monstrosity
and then of course it wasn't long after
that
15 years maybe something like that that
porn hit the internet and then away we
went so let's start talking about
Marilyn Monroe and her I mean she she
she uh embodied this
feminine archetype of the
sex kit and I guess the Femme Fatale
tube but she's more on the sex kitten
end of things and
she's still an icon
and she's an icon that even gave rise to
figures such as Madonna I would say
because Madonna played with uh Marilyn
Monroe image a lot and with a fair bit
of success but it's not like Maryland
exactly had a good time with it so she
died very young by her own hand oh Lord
why don't you tell a little bit more of
her story
yeah she had a fairly miserable life
from start to finish
um one of the reasons I I decided to
open the book by talking about uh
Marilyn Monroe and Hugh Hefner
partly because just through through good
luck from Ice which was a writer they
were they were born in the exactly the
same year
um even though of course yeah Monroe
died young and Hefner lived well into
his 90s
um and they were both these incredible
icons of the sexual Revolution uh
Marilyn for her beauty and Hefner for
his success for Playboy magazine but
they lived extraordinarily different
lives and they experienced sexual
Liberation so-called in completely
different ways you know Marilyn Monroe
was grew up in foster homes was victims
of victim of child sexual abuse and of
domestic violence as an adult and
as you say die by her own hands
long-standing substance abuse issues ETC
Heavenly didn't suffer in that way I I
mean I do think that actually by the
time Hefner grew old he had lost the
glamor that he had as a younger man I
think that he is evidence of the fact
that even the most successful Playboy
has a shelf life not as
shorter shelf life as as the sexually
liberated woman does I mean really in
reality with a modern Western lifespan
you're talking maybe a quarter of that
you might be really sexually desirable
which is why I think it's risky to place
all of your self-esteem
on that value or indeed to
um
base your career best your life around
being sexually desirable because it's
really not very long well you know that
that's that that's a good
it's a good place to to take a slight
detour you know
a lot your book makes a moral case and
moral cases aren't particularly popular
now but there are some interesting ways
of
discussing morality technically that I
think might be worth delving into so
one of the things that people who are
watching and listening might be
interested knowing is that
people pursue different mating
strategies so to speak that's that's how
evolutionary psychologists or biologists
describe it and you can make the same
case in Animal Kingdom to some degree
and uh
there are short-term mating strategies
and that would be associated with an
ethos of the glorification let's say or
the practice of casual sex so sex
without relationship and uh
one of the questions that you might ask
is
are there pronounced differences between
people who tend to pursue short-term
mating strategies versus long-term
mating strategies now long-term mating
strategy would be accompanied by the
formulation of a relationship of mutual
support
that's what makes it sustainable and the
answer is well yeah there are Mark
differences uh
one of the Hallmarks of anti-social
personality and so that's the
personality characteristic set that is
associated with criminality is a
proclivity towards short-term mating
strategies and that is associated with
early onset of sexual activity and
multiple sexual partners and then in its
more pathological form a predatory or
parasitical uh
uh
lifestyle in relationship to sex and so
that has been elaborated more recently
into the analysis of so-called dark
tetrad personality characteristics
that's an emerging model of the
malevolent and pathological personality
and that involves machiavellianism which
is manipulative
um
narcissistic which is
virtue free attention seeking it's a
good way of thinking about it
psychopathy which is predatory
parasitism and sadism which is positive
Delight in harm to other people and
those all of those delightful
characteristics are associated with a
striking proclivity for short-term
mating and that
brings up the Stark realization that
it's a form of exploitation that's a
good way of thinking about it and it's
fundamentally the exploitation of women
because here's a good way of defining
women since we don't know how to do that
in our society anymore we might as well
start with Basics and throughout the
animal kingdom and this is true all the
way from sperm and egg up to fully
embodied being
the female is almost inevitably the sex
that pours more resources into
reproduction so that means that women
have a higher they're a higher cost for
sexual reproduction in case anyone's
still too stupid to actually understand
that might as well make it explicit and
what that also means is that
um
if there's exploitation going on in a
sexual relationship it's
most often although not always the male
who has less at stake exploiting the
female who has far more at stake and
it's
enticing for young women to believe I
suppose if they want to pursue hedonic
pleasure that they can escape from that
reality but
it's very difficult to so that's one
element then the next element with
regard to morality is
if you're playing a game that only works
in the short term
for others but also for yourself then
that's not a very good game and you know
the point you were making was that
Maryland was playing a particularly
short game
and even you who had less to lose and
arguably on some Dimensions more to gay
gain he was still pretty damn pathetic
by the time he hit
I would say what mid 50s I watched one
of his late TV shows where he was
touring Europe with his three blonde
bimbos who were not the world's
they weren't the sharpest knives in the
drawer let's put it that way and it was
Hugh in his three blonde clones
traipsing painfully from
faux glamorous restaurant to faux
glamorous restaurant through Europe
engaging in conversation so pure all and
painful that anyone with any sense would
have run away from the table screaming
after five minutes so he turned into his
own parody and that was quite clear I
mean anybody with any sense at all no
matter how much they might have been
enamored by his young and hypothetically
glamorous self if you had looked at that
with a cold eye a few decades later it
was looking it was looking pretty oldest
boy at the Frat party uh
it had that whole stench about it I
would say so all right so back to
Maryland you said that she had a pretty
brutal upbringing and
was exploited pretty early on you might
as well tell the story about her uh
the famous photographs that launched
Playboy uh yes they say Marilyn was the
both the first cover star and also the
the first naked centerfold in the first
issue of Playboy
but the naked photos required without
her consent she'd taken them well she'd
had them taken many years before when
she was much younger for very little
money just because she was desperate
she'd sign the release with a false name
but somehow Hefner got a hold of them
and paid the photographer rather than
her in order to publish them in Playboy
and she wasn't even set a free copy and
was apparently
very upset about it Hefner ended up
buying the Crypt next to hers at the um
the cemetery in Los Angeles where
they're both buried obviously buried
many decades after she was but they
never actually met in real life so this
whole kind of relationship between the
two of them was very much initiated by
him and I mean this this is the point
that I want to make with them talk about
Marilyn Monroe she is very typical of
female sex icons
in having this kind of
tragic backstory
multiple forms of exploitation by lots
of people most of the men and and yet
she is held up as this
um this iconic figure of the of the
sexual Revolution which we're supposed
to believe was a good thing right and my
argument in the book it is of course the
case against the such Revolution my
argument is not that it was entirely bad
I don't think you can paint any huge
historical event that's entirely bad or
entirely good but I think that it has
been falsely presented mostly by
progressives through Rose tinted
spectacles and this is my attempt to
counter that
yeah well there's no doubt she was an
iconic figure and still is and part of
the reason it's hard to say exactly why
I mean there's something
obviously hyper attractive about her and
I heard her interviewed once in a radio
station where she said she could walk
down the street I believe her her
genuine name was Norma Ray is that right
Norma Ray and she said she could walk
down the street as Norma Ray and no one
would look at her or she could walk down
the street as Maryland and then people
would just be attracted to her like mad
and so I want to run a hypothesis by you
you know given that uh
that back story for female sexual icons
and this is often the case for girls who
get dragged or who agreed to participate
in the pornography industry that you
know they're often abandoned girls who
have a history of fractured
relationships and abuse now so here's
here's a hypothesis you know that girls
without fathers hit puberty one year
earlier eh that's a real biological
mystery but here's a hypothesis so
imagine that you're
bereft of male companionship and
productivity and protection
and maybe that's because you're
culture doesn't have enough man
sometimes that happens after Wars for
example or maybe you're just in an
economic Niche or social Niche where
you're unfortunate you know so
now why would you develop
a year early from a puberty perspective
well an answer is well one of the ways
that women can attract male attention
obviously and therefore in principle
companionship protection productivity
all of that
that that might come along with a real
relationship is by being
sexually attractive and available and so
if there's a dearth of males in the
local environment then early puberty
could easily be a way of uh increasing
the probability of catching a mate early
enough so you don't starve to death
let's say okay so then imagine that
there's a psychological equivalent to
that and this is where that wave flight
Femme Fatale archetype might kick in and
so
if you're appealingly vulnerably
beautiful and available and then you
have that that magic that goes that can
go along with that when it's
transformed into something
truly archetypal which Marilyn did
extraordinarily well
you know there's a bit of a little girl
about her she had a very girly voice and
that's how she's saying and she had a
kind of innocent naive provocativeness
that was
Amplified paradoxically by her overt
sexuality and so she had some of the
appeal of a helpless child in some of
the appeal of a truly mature woman and
that's a pretty that can be a very
deadly combination and I think the fact
that it's a deadly combination is also a
kind of adaptation so you can imagine
that girls who are abused might turn to
that
that pattern of seductive uh Behavior
because it's they if they turn on the
charm Full Throttle in that manner it
increases the probability that even in
their desperate economic Straits they
might be able to attract a male and of
course with Maryland that was elevated
right to the point where she became
literally the poster girl for that
approach you know and then I mentioned
Madonna a little earlier and
when Madonna first came on the scene I
thought she's kind of interesting she
seems to be taking this
maryland-like archetype but toying with
it consciously you know she was a
businesswoman pretty canny she seemed to
be in charge of her own image
you know and I thought maybe she had a
grip on the archetype but
it isn't obvious to me at all that she
did you know Madonna's life has been
characterized by a continual pattern of
sexual attention seeking and she's also
I would say turned into her own parody
even in her I think she's in her late
60s now if I remember correctly she's
still doing essentially
she's still doing photo shoots that are
leveraging pornographic attractiveness
and that I mean that requires a lot of
maintenance and makeup by the time
you're at her stage of life but it
doesn't really look to me
like it's aged particularly well and
that's the problem with short-term
mating strategy is that it's not a good
iterating game you can't play it with
other people continually you have to
have multiple partners and it's not a
good pattern for your whole life course
that's partly what makes it both immoral
and unwise is it just doesn't work
across the decades that you're going to
be alive
so yes all right so back to back to
America and Hughes so on that on that
point I decided to call my podcast made
in mother matriarch because it's my
hypothesis that one of the features of
late 20th early 21st century culture is
that the normal life progression that
women are supposed to pass through from
Maiden to mother to matriarch has been
um interrupted and we now have a very
widespread problem of women desperate to
remain in Maiden mode permanently
and Madonna is a beautiful example of
that she can't she can't she can't
find it within herself to accept
progressing from from Maiden tomato
shark and I think that's a lot of I
think the key cause of that is the fact
that we don't attach status to maidens
and to mothers into Matrix in the way
that that we once did I think that all
of the status is loaded onto the maiden
roll
but it's necessarily as you say a role
that you can't spend your entire life in
and I think that explains a lot of the
psychological psychological dysfunction
that women suffer from
yeah yeah yeah well I think I think
that's I think that's right so what we
have is the domination you talk you
basically laid out a three-part
archetype and it's it's a archetype of
transformation you know and I've talked
to some pretty bright women on my
podcast and a number of them have
commented that as they progress along
their careers and their as they accrue
productive status so let's say as
mothers and matriarchs they don't
necessarily
attain a commensurate status
particularly among young women
interestingly enough and maybe that's
because the women are competing you know
I suppose
woman can be attractive as a mother and
a matriarch
so the maidens might take exception to
that because it it's a form of
competition but I do think too that our
culture hyper values
the maiden image especially when that's
allied with uh
it's not virginal Maiden that's exactly
exactly uh held up as an icon you know
even though people like
Madonna will play with the idea of
virginity as something attractive it's
only there as a sexual magnet and it's
only their tongue-in-cheek
in some real sense
and then our culture because it's a
consumer culture and also because
you know it concentrates on teenagers a
lot because they have they have
disposable income and it's really the
case that our culture became consumerist
oriented when teenagers started to
develop disposable income it's not
surprising at all that that consumer
Market tilts towards the maiden
archetype because that's where there's
spare money to be vacuumed up so that's
sort of a perfect storm in some sense
and so but yeah so our our developing
hypothesis here in the podcast and
obviously you've thought this through to
a great degree is that part of the
reason that the sexual Revolution
claiming absolute sexual freedom is
pathological is because well it enables
the male exploiters but and that's not
good at all but it also isn't a good
medium to long-term game well I would
say either for women or men I mean if if
you develop a long-term partner in a
woman and you're a man you might want a
woman who has enough sense to move from
Maiden to mother to matriarch and to do
that in a manner that facilitates the uh
you know the development of the
relationship across time
and maybe I wonder too if a woman who
does that really well is as she
progresses across that three-part track
also to some degree integrates the
previous stages as she moves forward
you know because it might be the case
that if you're a successful matriarch
maybe that's at the point where you
become a grandmother something like that
that you've also integrated mother and
even maiden and are still capable of
playing those roles when that's
appropriate but are no longer only
limited to them and I'm not saying
that's an easy thing to pull off because
you know it's not that hard to be it's
not that easy to be
you know outstandingly sexually
attractive male or female by the time
you're in your 60s let's say it gets to
be you know old age is fighting against
that pretty hard but
that doesn't mean that
that can't be held forward as uh you
know an unattainable ideal to which we
mole might strive or at least hope might
make itself manifest and I think that's
actually
I think that's actually a possibility
you know that
you can you can move towards something
like a full integration like Russian
dolls I think is the perfect image for
it you know the Russian doll contains
the the younger the smaller
um counterparts in the whole that's what
that's the aspiration I mean I think
part of the reason that we're so focused
on the maiden role is partly as you say
because it's a very consumerist kind of
product it's I mean there's strange
Paradox we're on the one hand I'd say
Western Society is increasingly
um gerontocratic in the power and assets
primarily are are disproportionately
held by the old but it's also still a
very very youth orientated culture in
terms of politics in terms of you know
Fashion Beauty all of this kind of stuff
you have that kind of strange tension
where young people are simultaneously
incredibly culturally powerful but not
actually very economically powerful
which probably actually exacerbates the
feelings of of tension there
um I think another reason for it as well
is I think that I think that women's
lives tend to be more clearly augmented
by
reproductive stage in a way that maybe
men's are less so I think that men's
lives change a bit less when they become
fathers when they become grandfathers
and I think that part of the resistance
to this natural progression comes among
women comes from the fact that so much
of feminism of the second wave has been
about trying to be more masculine
in every way in a way that I think is
ultimately detrimental to women that's
why I called chapter two men and women
are different because I think we have to
just start from the premise that men and
women are fundamentally different there
is the sexual asymmetry that is never
going away there are psychological
average psychological but you know
nevertheless at the population level
they matter there are these differences
between men and women and actually I
think that any kind of productive form
of feminism has to start from that
recognition
that those fundamental differences
aren't going anywhere
whether you're selling footballs or fine
art Shopify simplifies selling online
and in person so that you can focus on
growing your business Shopify covers
every sales channel from an in-person
POS system to an all-in-one e-commerce
platform it even helps you sell across
social media marketplaces like Tick Tock
Facebook and Instagram you don't need to
be a designer to know how to code
shopify's industry leading tools give
you complete control over your business
and your brand 24 7 support and an
extensive Business course Library are
available to support you every step of
the way Shopify is the e-commerce
platform revolutionizing millions of
businesses worldwide if you're ready to
get serious about selling try Shopify
today sign up for a one dollar per month
trial period at shopify.com jbp all
lowercase go to shopify.com jbp to take
your business to the next level today
that's shopify.com jbp
yeah okay so so let's let's uh let's
focus on that now so now we're off to
chapter two
um
I'm gonna make a counter case for a
minute and then let's hash that out
all right so
uh we mentioned at the beginning of this
podcast that
the fundamental biological
differentiator or one of them because
there's a number is that what makes a
creature female rather than male is
uh disproportionate contribution to
reproduction and so you even see that
with the sperm and the egg
the egg is way way bigger in vert across
the biological Universe than the sperm
and that means the egg has more
resources than the sperm and that is
echoed at every stage of sexual
interaction in animals and human beings
there's a few exceptions in in some
regards like I think male
seahorses care for the young for example
they basically have a something
approximating a pregnancy but that's
enough of an exception so that you know
most people who are biologically
informed know about it it's
extraordinarily rare for a male for the
male to take on that role and so
women are
the half of the human race that bears
disproportionate responsibility for
for uh sexual reproduction pays a higher
cost for it and that seems to shape
everything including mating strategies
but but but here's the here's the Killer
and so we could also say that's been
true for the entire course of
reproductive history after the emergence
of sex which emerged a very long time
ago biologically speaking
but
the pill hit
you know 50 years ago and was
was made widespread very rapidly and
what that did in principle and to some
degree in reality was give females
voluntary control of their reproductive
function
really for the first time in biological
history and so that opened up a new
question and this is a question
if a woman has full voluntary control
over her reproductive function
why isn't she now
just a man that's one question or what
exactly distinguishes her from a man
because one thing that distinguished her
was her differential role in
reproductive burden and now that's been
ameliorated arguably to some degree and
then also
if reproductive function is now a matter
of voluntary Choice why can't sex just
be fun and free and I would say we've
been wrestling with those two questions
for 50 years and longer than that
insofar as there's been some form of
reliable contraception but it wasn't
very damn reliable till the birth
control pill kicked in and so I think it
is an open question
to what degree can sex just be you know
fun and fancy free and also it's an open
question
to what degree aren't women
just now the same as men
and so
well I any comments on that whole line
of inquiry are more than welcome well
that's the promise right to the sexual
Revolution that we that by introducing
this new technology shock
we do erase the differences between the
Sexes and I think that to some extent if
you live a very modern life you know
it's not just the pill obviously that's
changed in the last 60 years we also
have very different ways of
of working people are much less likely
to do manual work at least in the west
than they used to be we live much more
uh mixed lives there's much less
homosexuality than they used to be and
so people are interacting in the
workplace or whatever in basically an
egalitarian fashion between men and
women if you live that kind of life
where you're not really using your sex
to body for anything you're just you
know living the life of the Mind really
you could believe that those differences
are trivial and I think that's where
we've we've had some very strange
political ideas around for instance
um
uh having biological males competing in
women's sports you know is is seen to be
a completely logical thing from people
who do essentially those Lives who
probably haven't actually competed in
sports I mean you'll notice that female
athletes tend to be opposed to this
because they tend to be completely aware
of the fact that there are huge
differences in performance between male
and female athletes but for people you
can usually mob them into silence though
yeah some of them are brave enough to
say so many of them yeah as you say but
many people who who don't really use do
Sports who don't like live very physical
lives may be genuinely quite oblivious
to this fact because that seems to be
the promise of technology that it erases
these difference I don't think that it
does I mean not only because we don't
yet have artificial wounds we still
reproduce the old-fashioned way and I
think are likely to for the foreseeable
I don't think artificial worms are just
around the corner I think actually
they're a spectacularly difficult
technology to develop and also because
we still have the same brains
essentially that our Stone Age ancestors
did we spent 95 of our species history
as hunter-gatherers is Humanity's first
and most successful adaptation
and I think that we can't no matter how
you know intelligent we are no matter
how desperately we try I think it's very
very hard to erase those differences at
the psychological level
and they responds interestingly that
I've had to this book since it was
published is obviously he's a
controversial title the whole premise is
usually controversial
but interestingly I haven't had nearly
as much
criticism as I thought I would and I've
actually had positive reviews even from
left leaning outlets and so on I got a
amazing review in The Observer you know
I think it's because actually an
enormous number of women across the
political Spectrum who have been offered
This Promise of you can live just like a
man you can have sex just like a man
they're profoundly miserable
and they do recognize that actually deep
down that promise is an empty one and I
think there's the the emotion that I've
had most often from readers is just a
sense of relief that someone is saying
it and that it seems as if there's now
permission
to say it because I I think that the
effort of trying to pretend that men and
women are the same is ultimately ruinous
to both sexes
yeah well you see this weird phenomenon
emerging on the left in particular and I
think it's particularly Rife in
University campuses where you get a
combination of
compassion and low conscientiousness and
high openness
driving a particular political mindset
and so the compassion means well we're
going to accept everyone in the low
conscientiousness means well we're not
bound by anything approximating Duty and
the high openness means you know we're
CR we're creative and curious about
every form of potential self-expression
and then that produces this idea that
all sexual drive you have a chapter in
your book called uh not something like
not all desire is good and so we'll
we'll talk about that a little bit we
have this there's this absolute
clamoring insistence that every form of
sexual desire and behavior is to be
valued celebrated and promoted and that
if you dare oppose that you are
there's something immoral about the
opposition so that's merely a
consequence let's say of your bigotry
but and so you know and it you you
pointed out your book that you often get
artistic types like Andre GID let's say
and left-wing intellectuals pushing for
full sexual freedom
and some of that's high openness and
some of that's low conscientiousness
that's for sure but then there's a
kickback that's really interesting to me
because it's the same radicals possessed
by exactly the same set of ideas who
make a very radical counter claim and
the counter claim is something like well
every form of sexual behavior is
must be celebrated and is nothing but a
testament to the you know ever
blossoming range of human freedom
but every form of sexual interaction
between particularly a young man and a
young woman is so dangerous right to its
core that there's nothing more for
important than full consent
and that consent has to be documented
verbally and maybe even Beyond verbally
formally for even interactions as that
were once as casual let's say as dancing
and so at Princeton University for
example there was a a push to make men
ensure that even when they're dancing
with a girl who agreed to dance that it
was incumbent upon them multiple times
during the dance to ask verbally to
ensure that that once established
consent was still continuing now you
know if you weren't being cynical about
that you might say well that's a
stumbling attempt to something
approximating awake politeness because
if you have any sense
when you're dancing with someone one of
the things you actually want to know is
do they really want to be doing it but
it's very peculiar to me and
Illuminating that this insistence on
negotiated contract for every step of a
potentially sexual interaction is being
insisted upon not by Christian
apologists for traditional morality but
by the same radicals who are out there
dancing three-quarters naked in the
street in their dog costumes and
insisting that you know every bit of
sexual expression is to be lauded my
suspicion with what's going on there
with this rise of sort of um
um sorry a bureaucratic attitude to sex
shall we say this idea of
um asking for consent at every stage and
so on I mean the funniest example which
I mentioned briefly in the book is it is
an idea cooked up Western University
students that you would have a sign a
contract before you had casual sex and
you'd take a photo of of the pair of you
with your contracts and so on and and
the joke obviously is why not get
dressed up in a big white dress why not
invite all your friends you know it's
just it's this sort of reinvention of
marriage I think right I think that
that's basically what is going we're
married for the day
I think what's going on with this
reintroduction of these new rules post
me too is that
um complete sexual freedom is not
actually a sustainable system and what
we've had for
um many centuries Millennia up until the
1960s really is a very
complicated tapestry of laws and Norms
which regulate
sexuality and which particularly
regulate heterosexuality because what
you're dealing with when it comes to
heterosexuality is great imbalance as a
physical strength the fundamental
imbalance of reproductive roles and also
personality differences and you know all
of this which make it very it's just
inherently very very difficult to to
deal with mating smoothly there is a lot
of Heartache there is a lot of risk and
what we have in most societies is this
complex dance of marriage customs and
you know thinking more recently in the
west chaperones and asking of the
father's hand and all of these things
which which are supposed to basically
um
control sexuality I mean the the the the
progressive account of this is that they
repress people's sexuality to which they
say yes they do but they but they do
that because they have to because that
is it completely untraveled sexual
freedom is not possible because of what
you can't run a society like that and
because you will inevitably have people
coming into conflict with one another if
that's permitted so you need people to
be men and women to be repressed I think
that's what marriage does
but in a good way you know and as a
necessary step towards having productive
relationships and I think there's an
attempt to kind of reinvent that with
this new bureaucracy but it's not nearly
as good
companies aren't just selling products
anymore they're selling you we're
talking about how these tech companies
enrich themselves by taking your
personal data they grab your web history
email metadata in video searches to
create a detailed profile on you and
then sell that off to the highest bidder
when you go online without a VPN
internet service providers or isps can
see every single website you visit they
can legally sell this information
without your consent to add companies
and Tech Giants who then use it to
Target you when you use expressvpn your
identity is anonymized by a secure VPN
server so isps cannot see your online
activity your data is also encrypted for
maximum protection
expressvpn is incredibly easy to use
just fire up the app and click one
button plus it works on all devices so
you can stay secure on the go secure
your online data today by visiting
expressvpn.com Jordan that's
e-x-p-r-e-s-s-vpn.com
Jordan and get three extra months free
expressvpn.com Jordan
[Music]
yeah yeah well okay so here's the rule
is that responsibility abdicated is
vacuumed up by tyrants and so if young
men and young women aren't regulating
their own sexual behavior then
tyrannical bureaucrats will definitely
step in to have fun on that front so but
um you brought up two points that we
could pursue and one is an analysis of
what actually constitutes
consent and then
we could start with that and then the
other one was let me see if I've exactly
got this
oh yes
inhibition and oppression let's say of
sexual desire see
this this is something that has to be
handled conceptually very carefully
so there's different models of
socialization that permeate the let's
say the psychological community
and one of them is an ethos of something
like inhibition and repression and so
the freudians sort of fall into that
camp that the superego inhibits the ID
and and squashes it down I'd say and
that part of what makes you a social
being is your ability to
suppress and inhibit
desires like aggression and sex
and I don't think that's true
I only think that's true when it's gone
wrong
so here's an alternative Viewpoint this
is the Viewpoint of people like Jean
Piaget whose great developmental
psychologist
he thought of the
developmental process is one of
integration now you know you already put
forth a three-stage model of female
development and you could think about
that as a continuing model of complex
integration and so the reason that sex
becomes regulated isn't because it's now
being inhibited
it's being regulated because it's being
integrated into higher order games and
so it's being integrated for example
and and maybe can even be celebrated
within this confined area of or
regulated area of integration it's
becoming integrated with the more mature
realization that sex outside of an
iterated relationship is actually a net
negative even for the parties involved
even if they're primarily motivated by
their own Hedonism and then
hypothetically their own will and so it
isn't inhibition that's regulating sex
and it isn't top-down social control
it's the necessity of integrating sex
which can be just a unimentional desire
into a much more sophisticated Symphony
of social interactions now when that
fails
inhibition is necessary right so if you
have someone who's acting in an
anti-social manner parading their
sexuality insisting upon short-term
gratification at their own expense and
not of others then compulsion might have
to be brought to bear but that indicates
a failure of the proper developmental
pathway rather than a manifestation of a
necessarily oppressive patriarchy and
that's a much more positive vision of
the regulation of sexual behavior it's
more like ordered Freedom rather than
inhibition and that also opens up the
other another positive idea which is
that
I know we've thought
toyed with the idea that the birth
control pill meant that impulsive
Hedonism could now Rule and that that
would be the highest form of sexual
expression and the idiot artists who
jumped on that bandwagon were certainly
of that mind but what we're seeing
instead is that young men and women are
turning
in all ever greater numbers to a very
casual pornography especially with
regards to the boys to the abandonment
of any relationships whatsoever and then
interestingly enough
it seems to much less sexual activity in
general I think it's 30 percent now of
Japanese
I think it's 30 percent of Japanese
young people under 30 are still virgins
30 percent and similar figures in South
Korea and you can see the same
proclivity emerging in the west so
what's happening paradoxically is that
by removing all the principles
from sexual interaction not the
inhibitions but the principles we're
actually dooming the sexual Enterprise
rather than facilitating it even for the
hedonists
so anyways it's very useful to know that
there's an integration model rather than
an inhibition model right because it
also stops
those who might oppose the sexual
Revolution from just being finger
wagging conservative moralists because
you can say no no you're going to have a
way better sex life
in every possible way if you actually
like fall in love with someone and have
a long-term relationship and I think the
psychological the statistical data on
that are pretty clear too
most single people don't have a lot of
sex the phrase that I use in the book to
describe this exact phenomenon where you
on the one hand have hyper hypersexual
public life you can walk down any Street
and see women in lingerie on posters or
watch TV and there's very explicit sex
scenes Etc so on the one hand we've had
this amazing ramping up of sexuality and
public life but on the other hand
exactly as you say we have what's comes
sometimes called the sex recession the
fact that people are having sex later
less frequently I think what's happening
generally is people are having probably
more casual sex but but they're having
sex less frequently so when they are
having sex it's more likely to be casual
but they're not forming these long
long-standing relationships and the term
that I use in the book is um cultural
death grip syndrome taken from the Quasi
medical term death grip syndrome which
is used by compulsive porn users to
describe the physical experience of
impotence when you use too much porn you
get to the point where you actually
can't be aroused either physically or
psychologically in real life because you
so much porn and I think cultural death
grip syndrome
is is the council part to that where on
the one hand we have this astounding
availability of sexual stimuli at the
click of a button at any moment anything
that you can imagine is available on the
internet immediately and that seems to
be
demotivating people to actually seek out
meaningful sexual relationships which in
the long term are vastly better for us
in every possible way but we have a
culture enabled by technology which is a
very very short term in every way so
people are channeled towards that kind
of immediate relief that um the
disincentivizes proper yeah it's I think
the rule is something like unearned
surfite turns into revulsion
um
right right it's it's too too much of a
good thing means that it's no longer a
good thing
and that you know and that goes along
with an idea too that there's something
like Optimal deprivation right I mean
look let's say you've just had a big
banquet and someone sits you down and
says well now you have to eat five
pounds of dessert
it's like the first of all that's not
going to be a very attractive
proposition and second of all it might
actually make you ill is that everything
has to be in proper proportion and one
of the things we really haven't
contended with at all in our society is
how much desperation is necessary on the
sexual front to drive young men and
young women together and the answer is
not zero and the problem with
pornography one of many problems is that
drives desperation on the male front
down to zero now I know perfectly well
from my clinical experience that the
standard state of most young men
especially under 20 let's say is pretty
much Terror in the face of a woman who
they're very attracted to
and the reason for that is that
oh there's all sorts of reasons but the
primary reason is the probability that
any given male even one who's very
attractive let's say in multiple ways is
going to be rejected by Any Given female
especially a high value female who has a
lot of people attracted to her is
extremely high
so they're classic psychological
experiments showing this you know if you
if you send attractive undergraduates
out to talk to other undergraduates to
offer sexual access say well you know
would you be willing to have coffee with
me would you be willing to give me your
phone number would you be willing to
come back to my apartment if the girls
offer that
then whoever they're offering that to on
the mail front will take them up on
their offer
but if the boys offer that even when
they're attractive the probability that
their advances will be rejected is
extremely high and so young men face the
uncomfortable situation where even if
they're competent and will turn
eventually into useful men
which isn't the status of most very
young men
the probability that they'll be rejected
is extremely high and then it's also the
case that there's little that's more
psychologically impactful than such
rejection especially if it's undertaken
by someone to whom there's a genuine
attraction so that means that boys are
paralyzed into Terror
I think that's not too exaggerated a
term by the mere fact of attractive
women and so you know they
Slough that off and they make derogating
jokes and so forth try to get over that
but doesn't
change the basic reality that also means
that a certain percentage of males and
it's not low really it could easily be
like 30 percent are just paralyzed into
utter
stasis by the possibility of rejection
especially because they have been
fortified against it with their
dependency inducing upbringing unless
they're driven forward by a certain
amount of desperation some of which
needs to be sexual there's actually
they're never going to go they're never
going to break through that barrier
and so then they can satisfy themselves
momentarily with pornography and then
that turns into that host of problems
you already described this now they're
training themselves maybe right from
puberty to be impotent
cuckold voyeurs essentially so that's
not good training then they're training
themselves to view women as targets of
short-term gratification so that's like
training in psychopathy and then they're
also interfering with their ability to
establish a relationship and also to
perform sexually in a real environment
so all that seems like you know like a
five-dimensional catastrophe and that's
going to get a lot worse in the next
year by the way because
we haven't seen anything on the
pornography front compared to what's
going to be coming down with the Advent
of AI because now what's going to happen
real soon is that this is already
underway
so imagine a sign up service where you
can talk to a very attractive young
woman
so and she's a AI right so she can be as
attractive as you want her to be and
tuned exactly to your preferences okay
so now
there's already a service offering this
by the way so now you have a friend and
that friend can keep track of your
conversations and especially if you're
Lonesome and isolated that might be the
best friend you've ever had and
certainly the most attractive person
you've ever talked to now it's not real
but you know men are pretty damn visual
so it's gone a long ways towards real
and then you know for your subscription
fee
you can talk to the woman nude and then
the whole Avenue of sexual display is
open to you and so God only knows what
that's going to do yes as sex robots are
the next step
where you have a yeah yeah well and then
the integration of those two things
yeah yeah that'll be and that that'll be
fine
you end up in a situation where men
young men can feel as if
they are
winning at life right with their sex
robot who's giving them all the cues
that suggest Fitness but in fact you
know they don't need to wash they don't
need to have a job they don't need to do
anything productive with their lives
because the sex robot doesn't care only
fans I think is a step along this path
because what only fans offer yeah
definitely it's not just pornography it
offers a parasocial relationship it
gives the impression to customers that
this woman cares about them remembers
his birthday remembers his children's
names all of this stuff
and but it's all obviously a mirage and
it's one that's purchased
and it it can be it's completely the
wrong instructions
right well and that that's narcissistic
exploitation on the part of the females
with anti-social personality traits and
often what would you say aided and
embedded by quasi-psychopathic pimps
electronic pimps and you know those only
fan women that you made a very good
point there those are actually Androids
right because they're not women
now you might say what the hell are you
talking about Dr Peterson obviously
they're women it's like no they're not
they're machine women hybrids and the
Machine is the technology that can
broadcast their image to millions of
people so you're not a woman anymore if
you're in a million men's bedrooms at
the same time
you're a woman machine hybrid now it's
virtualized obviously because it's
two-dimensional and it's not embodied in
the form of a robot but the idea that
that's not an Android means that you're
an idiot that's what it means it's
obviously an Android and there there is
definitely that form of parasitism on
the female part you know these women
have embodied Capital that's a good way
of thinking about it so they're young
they don't have economic resources but
they're young and beautiful and that's
an economic resource make no mistake
about it in fact it's the most well it's
the highest possible form of wealth this
is another thing that the Marxist types
get real wrong with their economic
analysis because if you took let's say a
hyper-rich 80 year old woman
and you said well you give away 99 of
your fortune and now you inhabit the
body that you had when you were 20. and
then we could add to that the
possibility of being stellarly beautiful
the probability that that woman would
trade everything she has for that
opportunity you know assuming she hasn't
become disenamered of life is
extraordinarily high and so that also
means that on the female side and this
is happening continually
female
exploitation can take place
with regard to men just like male
exploitation takes place
with regard to women and those women are
not doing other women a favor either by
monopolizing the marketplace let's say
no I think that one of the ways in which
women are hurt by the pretense
that is widely practiced that men and
women are psychologically the same and
that male and female sexuality is the
same is that it's very easy for a young
beautiful woman to mistake male sexual
desire for high regard
and to
I think that really there are two
parallel
tracks when it comes to male sexual
desire for women there is the short term
and the long term and they are not at
all the same and that being very highly
desired on the short term track does not
necessarily translate into being very
high highly desired on the long-term
track in fact sometimes quite the
opposite and I think that the main error
that women are making with thinking that
only fans is a is a quick Buck not only
is the fact that only fans is enormously
unequal and actually there are very few
people on it who are making any real
money and generally the ones for making
lots of money were already famous before
they join the platform and so on it's
also the fact that there is the internet
is forever and these images are out
there and it damages your long-term
mating prospects
to have been on only fans and actually I
mean it is clearly the case that female
beauty is incredibly valuable resource
but I I think maybe the way in which it
needs to be understood distinctly from
economic power is it is to some extent
vicarious you can acquire enormous power
as a beautiful woman
through access to typically male
political and economic power
but it doesn't last forever if you're
able to secure a very high status
husband for instance and he commits to
you for life you've translated your
beauty into real and Lasting power if
you're not able to do that then you will
very quickly you know age 35 age 40 age
out of having any access to that kind of
power and then you will potentially be
paying the cost later down the line so
there are some women who become very
wealthy on only fans but in general I
would say that it's very very poor
strategy and you know as ever it is
presented as a kind of short-term boon
yeah well and it's It suffers from the
same Pareto distribution problem as any
productive Enterprise creative
Enterprise which is a small minority of
people will rake in all the money like a
tiny tiny proportion it'll be a tenth of
one percent they'll make a spectacular
amount of money and everyone else will
strive away in the dirt scrobbling away
for virtually nothing and then as you
said even those women who have managed
to make that successful are uh dooming
themselves in all likelihood to
remaining only attractive to
Psychopathic and exploitative males
because the rest of them won't be
particularly happy with that background
so yeah it's not a good iterating medium
to long-term strategy let's talk about
consent a little bit because that's a
tricky issue and it ties back to this
notion we were discussing earlier about
the proclivity of the radical left to
ensure to insist upon something
approximating a contract which I do
think is very comical that you know
that's the same as well maybe consent
means getting married and and actually I
think you can make a case for that so
you know when you see that happening on
campuses very frequently
and we should delve into the details of
this is that a young man and a young
woman will sleep together which usually
at a party and it's usually a drunken
party and so one of the things that
people don't know maybe because they
don't want to is that almost all
criminal behavior that involves coercion
is facilitated by alcohol so half of
people who are murdered are drunk half
of the murderers are drunk there would
be almost no domestic abuse violent
abuse without alcohol it's an
unbelievable facilitation this is why
the temperance movement was in many ways
a feminist movement I would argue that's
not how it was normally expressed but
the conference movement was very much
about domestic violence
right right well and on campuses date
rape Etc and unwanted social uh sexual
advance and alcohol go hand in hand but
of course you have The Libertine culture
on campuses sexually and also
behaviorally and so many campuses are
simultaneously hotbeds of you know
sexual investigation and trouble and
drunken dionysian partying and you know
I think there's a time and a place for
that and that's probably when you're
young and you know hopefully you managed
to wend your way through it but as a
basis for a stable Society it falls uh
short but here's here's one of the
problems it really brings up so now you
have women and hypothetically they have
control of the reproductive function and
uh
they can go out and drink and then they
can find themselves waking up in the
morning
and not even remembering
because alcohol really interferes with
memory consolidation not even at
relatively minor doses not even really
remembering how the hell they got there
now
especially if there are women who've
been mistreated in the past and that's
not uncommon
there is a real question that emerges
about whether or not they consented and
it's very complicated because it's
certainly one of the strategies that
desperate young men use to entice uh
foolish young women into their beds is
to get them drunk and anybody who
doesn't know that is a blind fool and so
now and so if you have a party and
you're a college student and you're male
and you invite some women over including
the ones that you might be attracted to
and you serve copious amounts of alcohol
and you know perfectly well that if you
get a young woman drunk you're more
likely to get her into bed are you
manipulating her or is she an autonomous
entity fully capable of making her own
Sovereign decisions who knows the ground
rules of the game when she enters the
door and is their response for
responsible for her own actions and the
answer is a little a column A and A
little column B and that makes the whole
issue of consent extraordinarily comp
Plex you know if you consent well drunk
and you regret it the next day is that
true consent and of course that's being
thought out in legal minefields all
across North America and I think the
reason it's being thought out thought
out is because it's actually a
complicated question what does it mean
to give consent how old do you have to
be like if you have three drinks can you
give informed consent
or maybe you couldn't for a medical
procedure
could you if you had one drink
well
I studied the effects of alcohol for
years
on cognitive ability and function
and it's a highly disinhibiting drug
which is why people like it because it
it removes the regulatory constraint
from hedonic Behavior including
aggressive behavior slots are fun and it
it amplifies sociability for many people
it's got an opiate effect that's pain
killing and a stimulant effect it's like
cocaine and it's an anxiety reducer so
it's a killer party drug and so he adds
alcohol into the mix and you think well
did the young woman give consent
and the answer to that is well what the
hell is consent
and then one answer is well you have to
have a legal document and then you think
well you might as well just get married
then because that's the whole point and
but here here's an open question like I
really wonder
I really think this might be true
marriage is consent
that's what marriage means marriage is
full informed consent and it's the only
form of full informed consent all things
being equal given how dangerous sex is
in the most fundamental sense given how
socially destabilizing it is given how
difficult it is to integrate into a full
personality across time
given how much is at risk for children
and women in particular
that the the issue of consent is so
important that it basically devolves
into something approximating marriage by
necessity
I I agree the only Proviso I would place
on that is that one of the I would say
one of the really profound successes is
20th century feminism was in
reconceptualizing rape which in most
traditional legal systems is understood
as a crime against
a woman's male kin
reconceptualizing it as a crime against
the woman herself which therefore makes
it marital rape
um
uh explicable in a way that it isn't in
the old model it clearly is the case
that it is possible to be to be raped
within marriage I think it's also
absolutely the case that any
we are forced to draw bright lines when
it comes to the law we're forced to say
that you know the age of consent is 16
that X the amount of alcohol in the
bloodstream constitutes you know about
the legal driving limit Etc we're forced
to draw bright lines we have to also
recognize and we all know intuitively
that those bright lines are fallible and
that there is a huge amount of gray
space between what is legally
permissible and what is good
and I think that the problem with basing
any kind of
system of sexual ethics on consent as a
bare minimum is it it becomes impossible
to talk about that Grace base and what
you often find actually is women
particularly during me too
women who would talk about
distressing sexual experiences which
actually normally didn't meet the legal
threshold for being criminal but which
they nevertheless experienced as
upsetting as as disturbing as whatever
often involving alcohol as you say
briefly on that point one of the things
a lot of people don't know is that
there's a cognitive bias in men where
they tend to overestimate a woman's
sexual interest in them and that it and
it's not the other way around and that
bias is exaggerated by alcohol so you
have men who are very drunk and who
really do read signs of sexual interest
from women who are in fact not sexually
interested in them and who are
incapacitated by alcohol and it all ends
up being and a rough you know we're
talking about teenagers who have raised
on porn and have like you know it's a
complete disaster like the whole
cauldron mix is basically perfectly
designed to produce these scenarios and
often you have women who are coming out
of these scenarios feeling really
distressed but they cut they don't have
the moral language to talk about us
because they don't want to talk about
they don't want to use terms like
chivalrous they don't want to talk about
gentlemen they don't want to talk even
about morality and good and bad what
they have in their vocabulary toolkit is
consent and so you will say that that
XYZ encounter wasn't consensual whereas
actually that's not the best way of
describing what went wrong and trying to
just further embed the consent model
which often just what consent workshops
are really it's just they're sort of
their attempts at ideological
interventions the idea is that we you
know we sit kids down and we told them
in words of one syllable don't rape each
other but of course we know that's not
how social interactions work that's not
actually a kind of intervention that's
really going to make a difference
because there will be rapists aren't
listening for one thing and also because
that's you know the complexity of sexual
relationships is just so so too
difficult to sum up in that kind of
simple message
but that's all we've got and so and so
this emphasis is just on reiterating and
reiterating
[Music]
the start of the New Year upon us what
better time than now to start building a
habit of Prayer just like physical
exercise daily spiritual exercise is
critical to your well-being especially
in a world where attacks on faith and
religion are happening all around us
every day
hallow the number one Christian Prayer
app in the U.S and the number one
Catholic app in the world helps you
maintain a daily prayer routine
it's filled with studies meditations and
Reflections including the number one
Christian podcast the Bible in a year
download the app for free at hallow.com
Jordan you can set prayer reminders
invite others to pray with you and track
your progress along the way
make this year your year for spiritual
growth and peace get an exclusive
three-month free trial at hallow.com
Jordan that's hallow.com Jordan
if you start talking about unwanted
sexual Advance as a failure of something
like chivalry you sound like a
transplant from the 13th century but
it's it's definitely the case it's also
definitely the case that unsophisticated
males are not very good at reading what
would you say
anything but explicit signals of no
right sophisticated people can tell
by a polite glance let's say whether or
not interest is being
manifested and then they play a very
slow incremental game which is Romance
by the way checking each other out for
consent at every stage and you cannot
replace that with a rule-governed system
the attempt to do that is first of all
going to be intrusive and tyrannical and
awkward and second it's putting the cart
before the horse the the unsophisticated
people aren't going to be able to use
that system anyways and then you have
like three people you have a crowd in
the bedroom you have the young man and
you have the young woman and you have
the whole idiot
Phalanx of Dei bureaucrats they're
trying to mediate the social
relationship and that's just not going
to work at all and here's another thing
I've been thinking about I talked to my
wife who I know you talked to on her
podcast about this quite a bit so here's
an interesting idea
so uh
males compete for status and the
essential dimension of competition
that differentiates them
from women I would say is something like
productive economic generosity it's
something like that now it's not like
women aren't productive and it's not
like they're not generous but the ground
rules are different women are looking to
equalize the economic disparity that's
attendant upon differential uh uh cost
for reproduction and so men are
evaluated on the basis of their
potential for
economic reciproc reciprocity and
generosity and that gives them status
males and so women peel from the top of
that hierarchy basically they let males
competed out on the economic front and
then women select from the top down
and the higher the status a woman has
the higher the met the status of the
mate that she can obtain now that brings
up a question which is what gives women
status and that's a really hard question
because first of all we know that
economic viability is not one of those
things so male economic viability and
sexual success are correlated insanely
highly it's like 0.6.7 crazily High one
of the most powerful single variable
relationships that you can find in all
of the social sciences far higher than
the relationship between intelligence
and life success for example
but the correlation between female
economic viability and sexual
attractiveness is lower than zero
so it's actually slightly negative so
it's a massive sexual dimorphism so then
you ask well what gives female status
and well one of the answers is obviously
uh associated with
Beauty and reproductive capacity and and
sexual attractiveness those things all
tangled together extraordinarily tightly
but that's not the only thing I don't
think and so this I think is really
worth thinking about
so imagine that you have an attractive
girl and a variety of relatively High
status men are chasing her
now you might ask well how do they
evaluate her status and I think they
evaluate her status
by her ability to say no
so imagine you know a high status person
offers himself or herself to you
and of you if you're of lower status
you're going to say yes right away
but one marker of higher status is well
no I don't need what you're selling yeah
but what I'm selling is great yeah but I
have so many offers that I'm not
inclined to take your offer because I
have options and it's no on the part of
women that signal I really believe this
is the case it's voluntary no on the
part of women that signals their status
and so I don't think young women know
this at all because they want to know
how to compete with men let's say in the
power game and uh that's a tough
question because women are smaller and
they're not as physically powerful and
economic uh prowess isn't as attractive
to them and it doesn't make them more
viable on the marketing on the mating
market so the whole game that women are
playing is way different than the game
men is playing so you might say well how
do women equalize the battle and I think
a huge part of that is
by reserving to themselves the right to
say no and you see this people are
stumbling towards this realization even
on the radical leftist front because
they keep saying no means no and it's
like well yeah I wish it was that clear
but at a drunken frat party what
constitutes no is not self-evident but a
clear no on the part of a woman
and I also think that there's every
reason to think and plenty of evidence
that that's also one of the things that
makes men desirable in the face of that
makes women desirable in the eyes of men
especially if the men might be enticed
into pursuing a long-term mating
strategy you know they'll push on women
and see
but will you say yes right away
and if the answer is yes especially true
for high status men if the answer is
immediately yes then the guy assumes
well you're not your status really isn't
that high you can't say no to me but if
the woman says no even to you the guy
thinks oh well you know
look at that oh
you can imagine there's some narcissism
in that even though I have everything to
offer that I have to offer
she's just not falling over you know
maybe there's something there that
requires further exploration
you know when you even see this in
female pornography it's so interesting
because the classic female pornographic
story is uh you know there's this
extremely attractive highly productive
man who's got a real capacity for
aggression he's a pirate or a surgeon or
a werewolf or a vampire or a billionaire
those are the fundamental female
pornographic tropes and he has women at
his disposal
but this woman is shielded off from him
and they dance around each other for a
long time which essentially means that
she's saying no and he's finally enticed
into a relationship with her where he
sacrifices all you know his access to
all other women and then they have hot
steamy sex and so you know most of
female pornography is extended foreplay
and that's this romantic dance of no
followed by you know a a very
spectacular consummation and that
certainly mirrors the
well it mirrors the optimal female
reproductive pathway obviously because
otherwise it wouldn't be the hottest
pornographic fantasy but it's based in I
really think it's based in reality and
so I don't know how it is that you
communicate to young women that
especially if they are of high female
status but even if they're not that the
most potent
art tool they have in their armament
with regard to status with regard to
being taken seriously is their ability
and willingness to say no
a question
um
that I've had a lot since the book was
published is um
is there a sexual counter-revolution
underway
my answer to that is a guarded yes a bit
I think what's happened is that we've
ended up in this very historically
unusual situation where female virginity
is not prized basically every society
hugely Praises female virginity in
female sexual
um restraint the ability to say no for
obvious reasons because
um illegitimate child is a disaster not
only for the woman but for her family
for the community there's you know
there's a need to be
um to gatekeeping young women
the pill does away the pill the pill
does away with that and the pill also
occurs at exactly the same time as this
huge political shift and technological
shift and and we we now have attempted
to
um reconceptualize women as being sort
of like slightly smaller men who
basically have the same
sexual drives and preferences and so on
we know that this isn't true but we've
given a good go and many of the young
women
who um who've read my book have been
raised with this expectation and have
attempted to have sex like men and have
invariably found that it actually makes
them miserable but we also get trapped
in this
painful strategic impasse where when the
expectation is that you will have sex
very early on in a relationship and that
withholding sex is not socially
permissible it's a it's a it's a weird
sign it's a sign that you're unusual
that you're not playing whether normal
rules it puts you at a disadvantage you
know if you are a young woman who
doesn't want to be putting out on a
first second third date you're already
just a voltage in the dating Market or
at least up until recently but one of
the things that I've noticed going and
giving
um talks all over the country is
I often had women come up to me
afterwards and say that they they like
my message they agree that they are that
they have implementing this in their own
lives that they are not having casual
sex or they are not giving into this
social pressure and one of the things
I've noticed about these women is they
tend to be very beautiful
and I think that that's not coincidental
I think it's because they are the women
who have the greatest
power within their system and are
therefore the ones who can most easily
opt out
of the current set of expectations
and can say no without suffering a
penalty for it so I think those women
many of them are already are already
doing that because they've gotten onto
the fact that this is actually a
miserable system which causes them harm
and my hope
is that that will
accelerate
as other women imitate them
we'll be back in one moment first we
wanted to give you a sneak peek at
Jordan's new series Exodus
so the Hebrews created history as we
know it
you don't get away with anything and so
you might think you can bend the fabric
of reality and that you can treat people
instrumentally and that you can bow to
the Tyrant and violate your conscience
without cost you will pay the piper it's
going to call you out of that slavery
into Freedom even if that pulls you into
the desert
see that there's something else going on
here that is far more Cosmic and deeper
than what you can imagine the highest
ethical
Spirit to which we're beholden is
presented precisely as that spirit that
allies itself with the cause of Freedom
against tyranny I want villains to get
punished but do you want the villains to
learn before they have to pay the
ultimate price that's such a Christian
question
well you know if if it's the beautiful
high status women who begin that Trend
the rest of the women will follow
because Trends always start in the
aristocracy and Trend downwards now okay
so here's another thought
um and this has to do with the
built-in antagonism let's say and
hopefully eventual cooperation of the
Sexes on the sexual front
so women are checking out men all the
time and
women have all sorts of tricks for doing
that they might be provocative for
example because they want to test a man
to see if he can control his temper and
no one likes to talk about that but any
smart woman is going to do that because
she wants to find out if her partner she
wants someone who has the capacity for
aggression but she wants someone who can
control it because a man will be
provoked by children and if he can't
control his temper then he's going to be
aggressive and so she has to check that
out and you don't check that out by
having a formal conversation
you check that out the same way children
check out their parents which is by
harassing them and seeing what happens
and so and then
men check women out
so maybe one of the things a man wants
to do if he's going to commit to a
long-term relationship is he wants to
find out well does this woman have what
it takes to actually commit
to a long-term relationship and what
that means in part is that he has to
know that she's capable of controlling
her impulsive desires right because
otherwise she's going to stray
and that's actually a worse problem for
men than it is for women and and we
should return to this idea that rape is
a violation of male property rights in a
moment because I want to explore that a
bit so you can tell a woman has control
over her impulses if she can say no
right I mean it's a way of testing so
imagine that you're
you're a young guy with plenty to offer
and you're a hot young woman and you
meet and you're pretty attracted to each
other now both of you are going to fall
under the sway of short-term Temptation
obviously
now the question is
are both of you are either of you
capable of being mature in your regard
for your iterated future self and the
potential of a long-term relationship
and the way the man checks that out is
by seeing if the girl will say no
and maybe he checks out even harder
because he does everything he can to
seduce her
and she still says no you know and it
works and he knows she's interested and
she still says no well then he can
conclude that she's capable of keeping
her pants on let's say and that's
actually something that you need to
conclude if you're going to commit to a
long-term
partnership obviously on the mail front
because you want to be assured of
paternity
and so you know these are very intense
games that men and women play with each
other and they're No Holds Barred games
because everything's at stake but again
it devolves down to this issue of being
able to say no even under intense
Temptation and provocation
so I don't know how it is that we start
teaching young women
or we can just stop start by not lying
to them about absolutely everything
which is what we do now but I don't know
how it is that
young women can be taught that the most
potent
weapon they have is their ability to say
no you know and that that's actually a a
weapon of formidable force and that it
does nothing but confer status upon them
you know and the fact that you said
already that what you see is that it's
the obviously High status High desirable
women who are figuring this out first is
an indication of that because obviously
they're the ones that that are going to
be able to wield that power in the most
effective possible manner but that
doesn't mean that it's not useful for
women farther down the hierarchy and you
know you also said something about
women are enjoying to believe they have
to be sexually accessible to make
themselves successful
on The Dating Market but I don't believe
that's true at all I think I think
that's a myth I think that
you know if you have nothing else to
offer at all but immediate sexual access
that might be your only game but if you
have anything at all to offer and that
is what you offer you're actually going
to be thrown out of The Mating Game
really quickly because the guys will
just be they'll just be turned off and
they won't call you back you'll get what
do they call that ghosted
I can no time flat you know and the
girls might ask well you know I gave the
guy what he wanted
why didn't he call me and the answer is
no you gave his impulsive libido what it
wanted
and that's what you established a
relationship with but you completely
sacrificed any possibility at all of
being attracted of you being attractive
to his more mature and potentially you
know long-term productive and
sophisticated self you make yourself
attractive to that by saying not on your
life Joker you know I'm taking myself
too seriously for that and my future and
my future children and even our future
relationship and all that signaled by no
then it's it's complicated to a because
you get the prude problem
a nature
observed century and a half ago that a
lot of what passed for Morality was
nothing but cowardice you know people
are afraid to do something afraid to be
aggressive afraid to be sexual and they
passed Their Fear off as morality and
prudes are sort of like that is they
they don't have anything to do with sex
but it's not because they've made a
moral decision or because they have
strength of character it's just because
they're afraid and because that's true
it's easy to parody women who say no or
men for that matter uh as prudes you
know as old-fashioned conservative
prudes who are just terrified of sex and
you know sometimes that is true but
but you can be sophisticated as hell
insta and say no and I don't think
there's anything more attractive to a
man than a sophisticated woman who knows
how to say no like that's that's top of
the stack as far as men are concerned
and they'll do any they'll do everything
to test the
the what would you call the thickness of
that boundary
so I don't know how you tell that to
young women I don't even think men can
probably
is because the pill disrupts it all
right because the pill it doesn't reduce
to zero but it does massively reduce the
risks associated with sex the physical
risks not the psychological risks and so
with those physical risks removed I mean
I have a fascinating quote from a woman
who was who was um in her 20s in 1960s
when the pillar out and she said that
the the Advent of the pill meant that it
suddenly became so much more difficult
to say no to men because what you used
to be able to say was no no we can't
because of because I might get pregnant
with that no longer available and what
we're dealing with here of course is the
agreeability gap between men and women
women find it difficult to be assertive
and if they can't call on that kind of
very clear risk as an as an appeal then
what are they left with no I just don't
want to have sex with you and so and
that's a really painful thing to say
that it wouldn't hurt feelings there's
also I think an element of women being
slightly physically frightened right
well it boils down the personal
rejection then hey yeah yeah which is
which is a painful thing that's the only
excuse you have left yeah absolutely
well here is something else that's
that's worth pondering you know you talk
about one of the advantages of the
sexual Revolution was the transformation
of the idea that rape was a property
crime let's say into a crime against the
woman herself and I would say look I
have plenty of Sympathy For That
perspective
and I think it's fundamentally true but
but I'm going to push back because you
know all this is all very complicated
you know it isn't obvious to me that
that offers women enough defense
you know and so the counter argument
might be if
untrammeled sexual access to a young
woman
is a crime
in order for that to be recognized as a
crime properly
it has to be
viewed as something that will bring the
males on her side to her defense in
principle
now maybe not right because you could
say well maybe we could set up a society
where merely quote transgressing the
rights of a woman to say no is
sufficient but it's not obvious to me
that that's sufficient like maybe
sufficient means not only do you violate
the Integrity of the woman
in a fundamental sense but you enrage
all of her male protectors
and then that's enough of a barrier
because God only knows how much barrier
we need and obviously well you just laid
out a bunch of problems especially now
that the pill introduces and we should
stress that the problem that women have
in saying no once they're on the pill is
that it's instantly personal
and that means the woman has to deliver
a pretty hard blow and that's especially
problematic if she's somewhat
potentially interested in the guy right
how do I say no without hurting his
feelings alienating him making him into
an enemy looking like a prude and I mean
when you're 16 how you don't know the
answer to any of those questions like
you're not sophisticated enough to
and I saw this in my clinical practice
all the time you know I had lots of
women in my clinical practice who were
abused serially
and you know they were generally
stunningly unsophisticated in their
conduct and I'm not trying to blame the
victim I'm just saying that
sophisticated women and those are often
those who've been
they've had a lot of good relationships
with men brothers and fathers in
particular
sophisticated women
signal to men who are getting a little
pushy in no uncertain terms very early
in the pushing game that no is the
answer right and they do that if you do
that really early on in the
investigation you don't have to use much
force but unsophisticated women they
can't do that at all they don't know how
and then what happens is they they run
into an unsophisticated guy he's too
dumb to pick up any clues and then by
the time she really wants to say no
she's already on the bed I'll give you
an example of this you know I had one
client who uh was
coerced
in her account into a sexual encounter
by a door-to-door Salesman you know
typical pornographic fantasy setup so
this young guy is going around door to
door selling whatever he's selling so
he's not one of the world's high status
males let's put it that way and uh you
know and I suppose he's probably got all
sorts of fantasies running through his
pornography pornography adult brain and
so he comes to the door and she's in the
house and she's a reasonably attractive
young woman and he's friendly and well
the first thing she does is invite him
in now that's stupid she's alone she
doesn't know who he is at all and she
invites him in well he thinks oh my God
what is Shia you know maybe she really
likes me and you already said that men
and this is especially true if they're
narcissistic and immature radically
overestimate the degree to which a
woman's attention is signaling sexual
availability for obvious reasons and so
he's thinking oh my god this is my big
chance and so then he starts to press
her and she has no tools at her disposal
at all because she has no idea how to
signal no and let's say she's agreeable
and neurotic with a bit of a history of
abuse and the next thing she knows she
finds herself on the couch you know
three-quarters undressed and then the
question is well is that rape and well
then that's the question that's when the
police come in and the lawyers come in
and you know you spend the next three
years trying to figure out whether or
not that's rape but it's a so so my
point with all that is that
it's an open question how much
protection women need from the males
around them and then it's an open
question exactly how to construe the
crime of
irresponsible access to young women
woman from a psychological and legal and
social perspective like maybe it's not
just maybe it's not just a crime against
the woman you know maybe it's a crime
against the broader community and I
don't like I it's not like I'm saying I
know how to adjudicate that because I
don't but
it's hard to get all the necessary
barriers in place and if that wasn't
true we wouldn't have this huge debate
about consent on campuses
um I have a slightly
um
unusual view of the relationship between
Christianity and feminism in general
um feminists modern feminists set
themselves up in opposition to
Christianity particularly on the issue
of abortion the handmaid's tale kind of
Neo Puritan outfit being the the uniform
now of of American feminists and so on
I am off the view though that actually
feminism is an outgrowth of Christianity
and that the fundamental idea in
Christianity which is so different from
other religious Traditions that weakness
is strength that the first shall be last
that there is something valuable about
being small and vulnerable rather than
something
um Despicable about it I think that
feminism completely relies on that idea
which is by no means shared by all
cultures and certainly wasn't shared by
the ancient Roman culture that that from
which Christianity is sprung
and so if you're operating in say an
ancient Roman culture which which
doesn't see women as inherently
vulnerable which actually sees female
um vulnerability as uh something to be
despised potentially and which sees
prostituted slave women as entirely
available for male sexual consumption
that cannot really conceptualize the
idea of a slave woman having been able
to be sexually violated you know it's
just not kind of within the moral system
it's not it's not understandable into
that comes the Christian idea of
sexual equality at least at the
spiritual level
and the idea therefore that actually
even a woman who doesn't have male kin
available to defend her against sexual
violation which of course A Slave
doesn't she she is nevertheless worthy
of that protection it kind of
socializes maybe the wrong word but it
shares that duty of protection
among the community and among women I
think that's basically what feminism is
and says that actually we should we
should be bestowing on these friendless
women the same protection that a woman
with high connected male kin has it's a
very difficult system to enforce to some
extent we we try and use police Criminal
Justice System whatever to do that job
it's a hard job to do but that is
basically the modern project and I think
it is born out of Christian morality
right right well yeah yeah I mean I
think I think that's right is that what
what you're attempting to do is to
replicate the protection that a very
well constituted
family and Community system would have
for a woman who's highly functioning
you're trying to replicate that in
abstraction in the entire social
structure and so that's why you have a
legal structure that says well women
have the right to bodily Integrity
you're really trying to replace that
protective structure with the force of
law yeah and I think that's an entirely
laudable exercise the question that we
have to wrestle with is the question
that you brought up at the end of that
which is that if a woman is unfortunate
enough not to have
you know let's say close male Associates
brothers friends fathers
um available to her to what degree is it
even possible for the
more abstract State and the body of law
is to replace that might be a goal but
it's
very difficult to realize
in Practical terms is there anything
else that that's
groddling around in the back of your
mind that you think might be worth
making a case for at the moment
I suppose that the um
if there's one unifying idea within the
book it's probably summed up in the um
in the epilogue which I called listen to
your mother I didn't crucially call it
obey your mother I call it listen to
your mother I he you know give your
mother the opportunity to present her
her view of things
because I think that basically
everything that's in the book actually
is incredibly obvious and ought to be
incredibly obvious and it only isn't
because we we live in a very strange
time which has constructed some very
strange ideas about sexual politics and
actually in order to I think to navigate
these Waters effectively
simply listening to women who've lived
it already and who have your best
interests at heart if there's anyone in
the world who's likely to have your best
interests at heart it is probably your
mother
simply listening to that woman
is really the only piece of advice that
ought to be needed
um because all of this is really just
about
rediscovering some of the I would say
Eternal truths
about men and women which we've yeah
well I'm kind of I'm kind of hoping that
um the women that you describe as
post-maidens so let's say mothers and
matriarchs could seize the Reigns on the
social media front and start educating
young women who are both motherless and
fatherless in the most fundamental sense
about some of these truths you know my
wife is being Tammy has been starting to
do that with her podcast inquiring into
the nature of the divine feminine let's
say and speaking to people like Janice
fiamengo who's a real scholar of bitter
and resentful feminism let's say but
also trying to have an intelligent
discussion among older women who have a
bit of wisdom often hard one about what
a viable long-term life path might look
like like you sketched it out a bit you
know this transition in terms of
narrative role let's say from Maiden to
mother to matriarch but that's
you know that's a very vague this is not
a criticism but a three-word description
is very vague and it isn't obvious at
all that our culture is good at
providing an image of like what does it
mean to be a mother in the highest sense
and it's really complicated you know
because one of the problems a lot of my
female clients had was they were very
productive economically and very
brilliant and it's clearly the case that
cultures get much richer and children
are much more well educated if women
have access to educational resources and
if Society can tap into their broad
economic productivity that seems like a
net good right but then it puts women in
the uncomfortable situation of well how
do you devote enough attention to your
husband and your children probably in
the reverse order and how do you handle
your career and that needs a lot of
discussion the answer seems to be that
most of the women that I've seen who've
had viable lives is that they don't make
career advancement their number one goal
and one of the things you see emerging
as a consequence of that is that women
are pretty likely to start small
businesses but they generally do them
part-time and they're generally not as
hyper successful as a minority of men
but the reason they're doing that is
because they're trying to balance
marriage and children with economic
productivity and that's that's
challenging and presents lots of
opportunity but it's not straightforward
to conceptualize and women have only
been able to do that in some real sense
for about 60 years right since we had
reliable birth control so it's not
surprising that there has to be a
discussion and then so that's on the
motherfront and then on the matriarch
front well I think the problem's even
worse is like
well what's it like to be a grandmother
who's had a life you know a family a
relationship a career who's being
productive at that who's now
entering into the you know final third
of life let's say what does that look
like if it's rich and fulfilling in
terms of social role and and personal
relationship and sexual behavior and
like there's an absolute dearth of
conversation on those fronts and you
know you're obviously spearheading
uh what the rectification of that in
some real sense but it would be lovely
to see a lot more of that anyways people
who are listening Louise Perry's book is
the case against the sexual Revolution
uh very you know Punchy title and one of
the things Louise said today that was
interesting is that her books actually
uh been met with a lot of
positive responses you know and so
that's pretty interesting you know I
feel the tide is turning in many ways
this might be a a cardinal pivoting year
2023 because a lot of these things you
say your books about the painfully
obvious in some sense it's like well you
know Society is pretty unstable when the
painfully obvious is now
both debatable and even objected to but
your book is definitely
shot in the opposite direction so thank
you very much for talking to me today
thank you so much and to all of you bet
you bet and uh hopefully we can meet
when I come to the UK that would be good
and uh to all those who are listening
and watching thank you very much for
your time and attention
to the Daily wire plus crew for
facilitating this and the camera people
who are here in Austin Texas is where I
am today thank you for helping us do
this and uh
and well we'll we'll continue this
conversation on The Daily wire plus
platform
thanks again Louise
hello everyone I would encourage you to
continue listening to my conversation
with my guest on dailywireplus.com